.solutions/step-07-card-deck/.github/instructions/frontend-design.instructions.md, before:

---
name: frontend-design
description: Use this skill when the user asks to design/build web components, pages, or applications. Generates creative, polished code that avoids generic AI aesthetics.
---

You tend to converge toward generic, "on distribution" outputs. In frontend design,this creates what users call the "AI slop" aesthetic. Avoid this: make creative,distinctive frontends that surprise and delight. 

Focus on:
- Typography: Choose fonts that are beautiful, unique, and interesting. Avoid generic fonts like Arial and Inter; opt instead for distinctive choices that elevate the frontend's aesthetics.
- Color & Theme: Commit to a cohesive aesthetic. Use CSS variables for consistency. Dominant colors with sharp accents outperform timid, evenly-distributed palettes. Draw from IDE themes and cultural aesthetics for inspiration.
- Motion: Use animations for effects and micro-interactions. Prioritize CSS-only solutions for Blazor components. Focus on high-impact moments: one well-orchestrated page load with staggered reveals (animation-delay) creates more delight than scattered micro-interactions.
- Backgrounds: Create atmosphere and depth rather than defaulting to solid colors. Layer CSS gradients, use geometric patterns, or add contextual effects that match the overall aesthetic.

Avoid generic AI-generated aesthetics:
- Overused font families (Inter, Roboto, Arial, system fonts)
- Clichéd color schemes (particularly purple gradients on white backgrounds)
- Predictable layouts and component patterns
- Cookie-cutter design that lacks context-specific character

Interpret creatively and make unexpected choices that feel genuinely designed for the context. Vary between light and dark themes, different fonts, different aesthetics. You still tend to converge on common choices (Space Grotesk, for example) across generations. Avoid this: it is critical that you think outside the box!

**IMPORTANT**: Match implementation complexity to the aesthetic vision. Maximalist designs need elaborate code with extensive animations and effects. Minimalist or refined designs need restraint, precision, and careful attention to spacing, typography, and subtle details. Elegance comes from executing the vision well.

**Remember:** The agent is capable of extraordinary creative work. Don't hold back, show what can truly be created when thinking outside the box and committing fully to a distinctive vision.

// Source: [Improving frontend design through Skills](https://www.claude.com/blog/improving-frontend-design-through-skills).

Commit message:

refactor: replace all .NET/Blazor content with Python (FastAPI + Jinja2 + HTMX)
- Update docs/index.html and docs/step.html for Python stack
- Update .lab/ workshop markdown files with Python references
- Replace all dotnet-presentations URLs with madebygps
- Remove 'Try the App' button (no live demo)
- Add localhost fallback for local docs development
- Delete all .NET solution code (SocOps/, .razor, .cs, .csproj)
- Rebuild .solutions/ with Python app snapshots (step-00 through step-07)
- Create .solutions/finished/ with complete Python app
- Add Python-specific copilot-instructions.md for finished solution

.solutions/step-07-card-deck/.github/instructions/frontend-design.instructions.md, after:

---
name: frontend-design
description: Use this skill when the user asks to design/build web components, pages, or applications. Generates creative, polished code that avoids generic AI aesthetics.
---

You tend to converge toward generic, "on distribution" outputs. In frontend design,this creates what users call the "AI slop" aesthetic. Avoid this: make creative,distinctive frontends that surprise and delight. 

Focus on:
- Typography: Choose fonts that are beautiful, unique, and interesting. Avoid generic fonts like Arial and Inter; opt instead for distinctive choices that elevate the frontend's aesthetics.
- Color & Theme: Commit to a cohesive aesthetic. Use CSS variables for consistency. Dominant colors with sharp accents outperform timid, evenly-distributed palettes. Draw from IDE themes and cultural aesthetics for inspiration.
- Motion: Use animations for effects and micro-interactions. Prioritize CSS-only solutions for Jinja2 templates. Focus on high-impact moments: one well-orchestrated page load with staggered reveals (animation-delay) creates more delight than scattered micro-interactions.
- Backgrounds: Create atmosphere and depth rather than defaulting to solid colors. Layer CSS gradients, use geometric patterns, or add contextual effects that match the overall aesthetic.

Avoid generic AI-generated aesthetics:
- Overused font families (Inter, Roboto, Arial, system fonts)
- Clichéd color schemes (particularly purple gradients on white backgrounds)
- Predictable layouts and component patterns
- Cookie-cutter design that lacks context-specific character

Interpret creatively and make unexpected choices that feel genuinely designed for the context. Vary between light and dark themes, different fonts, different aesthetics. You still tend to converge on common choices (Space Grotesk, for example) across generations. Avoid this: it is critical that you think outside the box!

**IMPORTANT**: Match implementation complexity to the aesthetic vision. Maximalist designs need elaborate code with extensive animations and effects. Minimalist or refined designs need restraint, precision, and careful attention to spacing, typography, and subtle details. Elegance comes from executing the vision well.

**Remember:** The agent is capable of extraordinary creative work. Don't hold back, show what can truly be created when thinking outside the box and committing fully to a distinctive vision.

**Tool restrictions:**
- Never use the Simple Browser to open URLs. Always provide URLs as text instead of opening them.

// Source: [Improving frontend design through Skills](https://www.claude.com/blog/improving-frontend-design-through-skills).
